.TH "Kute" "1" "0.3.0" "K. D. Hedger" ""
.SH "NAME"
Kute - (K)eiths (U)niversal (T)ag (E)ditor
.br

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
kute [OPTION]... [FILE] [FILE] ...
.br

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Read/Write tags to/from a music file including FLAC,AAC and MP3. Multiple files can be tagged simultaneously. Tags can also be removed (see examples). File type is found automatically (default) or can forced to a specific format.
.br

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBr, --read-all \fRPrint tags to stdout (default)
.br

\fBa, --artist=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag ARTIST to ARG
.br

\fBl, --album=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag ALBUM to ARG
.br

\fBn, --title=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag TITLE to ARG
.br

\fBt, --track=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag TRACK to ARG
.br

\fBT, --total-tracks=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag TOTALTRACKS to ARG
.br

\fBC, --cd=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag CD to ARG
.br

\fBi, --compilation=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag COMPILATION to ARG
.br
       Note this is non standard and ARG should be 1 for part of a compilation or 0 for not
.br

\fBy, --year=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag YEAR to ARG
.br

\fBg, --genre=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag GENRE to ARG
.br

\fBm, --composer=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag COMPOSER to ARG
.br

\fBo, --comment=\fRARG
.br
       Set tag COMMENT to ARG
.br

\fBY, --copy\fR
.br
		Copy ALL tags from first file to ALL subsequent files.
.br

\fBf, --force-flac\fR
.br
       Don't try to guess the file type treat it as a FLAC file
.br

\fBc, --force-aac\fR
.br
       Don't try to guess the file type treat it as an AAC file
.br

\fBp, --force-mp3\fR
.br
       Don't try to guess the file type treat it as an MP3 file
.br

\fBq, --use-quotes\fR
.br
       Quote file/artist/album names etc
.br

\fB?,h, --help\fR
.br
       Print this help
.br

.SH "EXAMPLES"
kute "/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac"
.br
Produces:
.br
FILENAME=/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac
.br
FILETYPE=1
.br
TITLE=That'll Be The Day
.br
ARTIST=Buddy Holly
.br
ALBUM=The Very Best Of Buddy Holly
.br
TRACK=01
.br
TOTALTRACKS=20
.br
CD=
.br
GENRE=Rock &amp; Roll
.br
YEAR=
.br
COMPILATION=
.br
COMPOSER=
.br
COMMENT=
.br

Set the title to "new title"
.br

kute --title="new title" "/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac"
.br

Remove track number and track total
.br

kute --track= "/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac"
.br

Set the album for "01 The Jean Genie.flac" \fBAND \fR"12 Diamond Dogs.flac" to "The Best of David Bowie"
.br

kute --album="The Best of David Bowie" "/media/LinuxData/Music/David Bowie/The Best of David Bowie/01 The Jean Genie.flac" "/media/LinuxData/Music/David Bowie/The Best of David Bowie/12 Diamond Dogs.flac"
.br

Copy all tags from /tmp/xxx/01 All The Tired Horses.flac to /tmp/xxx/01 All The Tired Horses.m4a and /tmp/xxx/01 All The Tired Horses.mp3
.br

kute -Y "/tmp/xxx/01 All The Tired Horses.flac" "/tmp/xxx/01 All The Tired Horses.m4a" "/tmp/xxx/01 All The Tired Horses.mp3"
.br
.SH "NOTES"
Setting the track number, cd number, track total or compiliation to 0 will remove the tag.
.br
Forcing a file type onto a different file may cause unexpected results.
.br

\fBAlways, ALWAYS use on a backup of the original, just in case!\fR
.br

\fBFiletypes\fR
.br
1=FLAC
.br
2=AAC
.br
3=MP3
.br
4=UNKNOWN
.br

Removing the track tag will alo remove the total tracks tag.
.br
.SH "AUTHOR"
Keith Hedger
.br

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
keithdhedger@gmail.com
.br

