.\" 
.TH "Kute" "1" "15-02-2009" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
Kute \- (K)eiths (U)niversal (T)ag (E)ditor

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
kute [OPTION]... [FILE]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.TP 
Read/Write tags to/from a music file including FLAC,AAC and MP3. Multiple files can be tagged simultaneously. Tags can also be removed (see examples). File type is found automatically (default) or can forced to a specific format.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.B r, \-\-read\-all
Print tags to stdout (default)
.TP 
.B a, \-\-artist=\fRARG
Set tag ARTIST to ARG
.TP 
.B l, \-\-album=\fRARG
Set tag ALBUM to ARG
.TP 
.B n, \-\-title=\fRARG
Set tag TITLE to ARG
.TP 
.B t, \-\-track=\fRARG
Set tag TRACK to ARG
.TP 
.B T, \-\-total\-tracks=\fRARG
Set tag TOTALTRACKS to ARG
.TP 
.B C, \-\-cd=\fRARG
Set tag CD to ARG
.TP 
.B i, \-\-compilation=\fRARG
Set tag COMPILATION to ARG
.br 
Note this is non standard and ARG should be 1 for part of a compilation or 0 for not
.TP 
.B y, \-\-year=\fRARG
Set tag YEAR to ARG
.TP 
.B g, \-\-genre=\fRARG
Set tag GENRE to ARG
.TP 
.B m, \-\-composer=\fRARG
Set tag COMPOSER to ARG
.TP 
.B o, \-\-comment=\fRARG
Set tag COMMENT to ARG
.TP 
.B f, \-\-force\-flac
Don't try to guess the file type treat it as a FLAC file
.TP 
.B c, \-\-force\-aac
Don't try to guess the file type treat it as an AAC file
.TP 
.B p, \-\-force\-mp3
Don't try to guess the file type treat it as an MP3 file
.TP 
.B q, \-\-use\-quotes
Quote file/artist/album names etc
.TP 

.B ?,h, \-\-help
Print this help

.SH "EXAMPLES"
kute "/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac"
.br 
Produces:
.br 
FILENAME=/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac
.br 
FILETYPE=1
.br 
TITLE=That'll Be The Day
.br 
ARTIST=Buddy Holly
.br 
ALBUM=The Very Best Of Buddy Holly
.br 
TRACK=01
.br 
TOTALTRACKS=20
.br 
CD=
.br 
GENRE=Rock & Roll
.br 
YEAR=
.br 
COMPILATION=
.br 
COMPOSER=
.br 
COMMENT=
.P
Set the title to "new title"
.P
kute \-\-title="new title" "/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac"
.P
Remove track number and track total
.P
kute \-\-track= "/media/LinuxData/Music/Buddy Holly/The Very Best Of Buddy Holly/01 That'll Be The Day.flac"
.P
Set the album for "01 The Jean Genie.flac" \fBAND\fR "12 Diamond Dogs.flac" to "The Best of David Bowie"
.P
kute \-\-album="The Best of David Bowie" "/media/LinuxData/Music/David Bowie/The Best of David Bowie/01 The Jean Genie.flac" "/media/LinuxData/Music/David Bowie/The Best of David Bowie/12 Diamond Dogs.flac"
.SH "NOTES"
Setting the track number, cd number, track total or compiliation to 0 will remove the tag.
.br 
Forcing a file type onto a different file may cause unexpected results.
.br 
.P
\fBAlways, ALWAYS use on a backup of the original, just in case!\fR
.br 
.P
\fBFiletypes\fR
.br 
1=FLAC
.br 
2=AAC
.br 
3=MP3
.br 
4=UNKNOWN
.P
Removing the track tag will alo remove the total tracks tag.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Keith Hedger

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
kdhedger@yahoo.co.uk

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
K.D.Hedger 2009


